.\"	wiredctl.1
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Axel Andersson
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, and the entire permission notice in its entirety,
.\"    including the disclaimer of warranties.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES,
.\" INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" MARCUS D. WATTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING,
.\" BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS
.\" OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
.\" ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR
.\" TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE
.\" USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd Feb 10, 2004
.Dt WIREDCTL 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm wiredctl
.Nd
.Xr wired 8
server control interface
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm wiredctl
.Op Ar start | stop | restart | reload | configtest | status | help
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm wiredctl
is a frontend to the Wired server.
It is designed to control the functionality of
.Xr wired 8 . 
.Sh COMMANDS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Va start
Start the daemon.
.It Va stop
Stops the daemon.
.It Va restart
Equivalent of
.Va stop
and
.Va start ,
in that order.
.It Va reload
Send the daemon a SIGHUP, causing it to reload its configuration.
.It Va configtest
Run a configuration syntax test.
.It Va status
Display a status screen.
.It Va help
Display a brief help message.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr wired 8 ,
.Xr wired.conf 5 ,
.Xr hl2wired 1
