.\" trackerd.conf.5
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2004-2007 Axel Andersson
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, and the entire permission notice in its entirety,
.\"    including the disclaimer of warranties.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES,
.\" INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" MARCUS D. WATTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING,
.\" BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS
.\" OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
.\" ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR
.\" TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE
.\" USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd Mar 23, 2006
.Dt TRACKERD.CONF 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm trackerd.conf
.Nd
.Xr trackerd 8
configuration file
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm trackerd.conf
is the
.Xr trackerd 8
configuration file. It consists of keywords and arguments in a
.Sq key = value
format, separated by newlines. Lines starting with
.Sq #
are ignored.
.Pp
Paths are interpreted as absolute if they begin with a
.Sq / ,
otherwise they are relative to the server root. Boolean values should be either
.Sq yes
or
.Sq no .
.Pp
The possible keywords and their meanings are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width
.It Va address
A specific address to bind to, instead of binding to all available addresses. Can be specified more than once, for each address the tracker should listen on.
.Pp
Example: address = 127.0.0.1
.It Va allow multiple
If set, allows a single IP to register multiple servers under different ports.
.Pp
Example: allow multiple = no
.It Va banlist
Path to the banlist file. Its format is described in
.Xr trackerd 8 .
.Pp
Example: banlist = banlist
.It Va categories
Path to the categories file. Its format is described in
.Xr trackerd 8 .
.Pp
Example: categories = categories
.It Va certificate
Path to an OpenSSL certificate PEM file. It can be generated by the OpenSSL
.Xr req 1
program.
.Pp
Example: certificate = etc/certificate.pem
.It Va cipher
An OpenSSL cipher list to use for connections. Its format is described in the OpenSSL
.Xr ciphers 1
program.
.Pp
Example: cipher = ALL:NULL:!MD5:@STRENGTH
.It Va description
A short description of the tracker.
.Pp
Example: description = My Wired Tracker
.It Va group
Name or id of the group that
.Xr trackerd 8
should operate as.
.Pp
Example: group = daemon
.It Va lookup
If set, enables hostname lookup. This requires that the hostname a server tries to register with must resolve back to the IP it is connecting from.
.Pp
Example: lookup = yes
.It Va max bandwidth
Maximum bandwidth in bytes/sec a server may be registered with.
.Pp
Example: max bandwidth = 1280000
.It Va max update time
Number of seconds a server must wait between updating. If a server attempts to update more often than this, it is removed from the list.
.Pp
Example: max update time = 30
.It Va min bandwidth
Minimum bandwidth in bytes/sec a server may be registered with.
.Pp
Example: min bandwidth = 8000
.It Va min update time
Number of seconds a server may go between updating. After this interval the server is remove from the list.
.Pp
Example: min update time = 300
.It Va name
Name of the tracker.
.Pp
Example: name = Wired Tracker
.It Va pid
Path to a file in which to place the process id of the running
.Xr trackerd 8
daemon.
.Pp
Example: pid = trackerd.pid
.It Va port
Port number to listen on.
.Pp
Example: port = 2002
.It Va reverse lookup
If set, enables reverse lookup. This requires that the IP a server is connecting from resolves to the hostname it's trying to register under.
.Pp
Example: reverse lookup = no
.It Va servers
Path to the servers file. Its format is described in
.Xr trackerd 8 .
.Pp
Example: servers = servers
.It Va status
Path to a file in which to place the current status. Its file format is described in
.Xr trackerd 8 .
.Pp
Example: status = trackerd.status
.It Va strict lookup
If set, servers that fail any of the lookup tests will be denied registration. If not set, the tracker will instead generate a new proper URL based on the source IP and the default port and enter this into the list.
.Pp
Example: strict lookup = no
.It Va user
Name or id of the user that
.Xr trackerd 8
should operate as.
.Pp
Example: user = wired
.El
.Sh AUTHORS
.Nm trackerd
and the Wired protocol were developed by Axel Andersson, Zanka Software.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr trackerd 8 ,
.Xr trackerdctl 1
