.\" wire.1
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2004 Axel Andersson
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, and the entire permission notice in its entirety,
.\"    including the disclaimer of warranties.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES,
.\" INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" MARCUS D. WATTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING,
.\" BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS
.\" OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
.\" ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR
.\" TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE
.\" USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd Jul 9, 2004
.Dt WIRE 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm wire
.Nd
Wired client
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm wire
.Op Ar bookmark
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm wire
is a screen-oriented termcap-based client for the Wired client-server system. It is used to connect to Wired servers.
.Pp
At startup,
.Nm wire
will read
.Pa ~/.wire/config
and interpret and execute each line as a command. Similarly, if a named bookmark is given as an argument to
.Nm wire ,
.Pa ~/.wire/bookmark
will also be read and interpreted. Note that commands in such files should not be prepended by a 
.Sq /
character.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl D
Enable debug mode.
.Nm wire
will log extra debug messages to the chat window.
.It Fl c Ar charset
Specify the character set that's to be used to display text from the remote server. This string is passed directory to the
.Xr iconv 3
character conversion system. Please consult the
.Xr iconv 3
manual for valid settings. The default value is 
.Sq ISO-8859-1 ,
which corresponds to ISO Latin 1 and should be okay for most systems.
.It Fl h
Display a brief help message and exit.
.It Fl v
Display version information and exit.
.El
.Sh COMMANDS
The following commands can be given to
.Nm wire :
.Bl -tag -width
.It Nm ban Ar user Ar message
Ban
.Ar user
from the server, with the comment
.Ar message .
.It Nm broadcast Ar message
Send
.Ar message
as a broadcast message to the server, to be broadcasted to all connected users.
.It Nm cd Ar path
Change the working directory to
.Ar path .
.It Nm clear
Clear the chat output.
.It Nm clearnews
Clear the server news.
.It Nm close
Disconnect from the remote server.
.It Nm comment Ar path Ar comment
Change the file comment of
.Ar path
to
.Ar comment .
.It Nm get Ar path
Request a download transfer of the remote file
.Ar path .
.It Nm help Op Ar command
If specified, display help for the command 
.Ar command .
Otherwise, display a list of available commands.
.It Nm icon Ar icon
Set your icon id to
.Ar icon .
.It Nm info Ar user
Request and display user information for
.Ar user ,
which should be a nick name.
.It Nm ignore Op Ar nick
If
.Ar nick
is specified, it is interpreted as an extended regular expression and entered into the list of ignored users. All messages from nicks matching
.Ar nick
will silently be dropped. With no argument, prints the current ignore list.
.It Nm kick Ar user Ar message
Kick
.Ar user
from the server, with the comment
.Ar message .
.It Nm load Ar bookmark
Load a previously saved bookmark from
.Pa ~/.wire/bookmark .
.It Nm log Ar filename
Save a log of the current chat output to
.Ar filename .
.It Nm ls Op Ar path
Lists the current working directory, or if specified,
.Ar path .
.It Nm me Ar chat
Send
.Ar chat
as
.Sq action chat .
.It Nm mkdir Ar path
Create a new directory at
.Ar path .
.It Nm msg Ar user Ar message
Send
.Ar message
as a private message to
.Ar user ,
which should be a nick name.
.It Nm mv Ar from Ar to
Moves the file
.Ar from
to the new location
.Ar to .
.It Nm news Op Fl Ar number | Fl ALL
Request and display the server news. Displays the 10 latest messages by default, or
.Ar number
messages if set, or all of them if
.Fl ALL
is set.
.It Nm nick Ar nick
Set your nick name to
.Ar nick .
.It Xo
.Nm open Ar address Ns Op Ns : Ns Ar port
.Op Fl l Ar login
.Op Fl p Ar password
.Xc
Connect to the server at
.Ar address .
If specified,
.Ar login
and
.Ar password
define the account that is to be used for login. The default is to try the login
.Sq guest
with no password.
.It Nm post Ar message
Post
.Ar message
to the server news.
.It Nm put Ar path
Request an upload transfer of the local file
.Ar path
to the current remove directory.
.It Nm pwd
Print the current working directory.
.It Nm quit
Quit the client.
.It Nm reply Ar message
Send
.Ar message
as a private message to the user that last messaged you.
.It Nm rm Ar path
Remove the file or directory at
.Ar path .
.It Nm save Ar bookmark
Save the current settings and connection as a bookmark in
.Pa ~/.wire/bookmark .
.It Nm start Ar transfer
Start the transfer with id
.Ar transfer .
.It Nm status Ar message
Set your status message to
.Ar message .
.It Nm stop Ar transfer
Stop the transfer with id
.Ar transfer .
.It Nm topic Ar message
Set the server topic to
.Ar message .
.It Nm type Ar path Ar type
Set the type of
.Ar path
to the folder type indicated by
.Ar type ,
which should be either
.Sq folder ,
.Sq uploads ,
or
.Sq dropbox .
.It Nm unignore Op Ar ignore | Ar nick
If specified, and it exists, remove the ignore with either the id matching
.Ar ignore ,
or the nick matching
.Ar nick .
.It Nm uptime
Display the client uptime.
.It Nm version
Display version information.
.It Nm who
Display the list of connected users.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width
.It Pa ~/.wire/config
Default configuration file. Read at startup. Consists of a newline separated list of commands.
.It Pa ~/.wire/bookmark
A named bookmark. Read at startup if
.Ar bookmark
is specified. Read at runtime using the
.Nm load
command. Consists of a newline separated list of commands.
.El
.Sh AUTHORS
.Nm wire
and the Wired protocol were developed by Axel Andersson.
