.\" trackerd.8
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2004-2006 Axel Andersson
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, and the entire permission notice in its entirety,
.\"    including the disclaimer of warranties.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES,
.\" INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" MARCUS D. WATTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING,
.\" BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS
.\" OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
.\" ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR
.\" TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE
.\" USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd Mar 23, 2006
.Dt TRACKERD 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm trackerd
.Nd Wired tracker
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm trackerd
.Op Fl 46Dllhtuv
.Op Fl d Ar server_root
.Op Fl f Ar config_file
.Op Fl i Ar log_lines
.Op Fl L Ar log_file
.Op Fl s Ar syslog_facility
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm trackerd
is the Wired tracker program, implementing the Wired Tracker protocol. It is designed to run as a standalone server. On startup,
.Nm trackerd
will read the specified configuration file, bind to the specified ports and listen for connections. It is recommended that
.Xr trackerdctl 1
is used to control the starting and stopping of 
.Nm trackerd .
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl 4
Listen on IPv4 addresses only.
.It Fl 6
Listen on IPv6 addresses only.
.It Fl D
Do not daemonize.
.Nm trackerd
will run in the foreground and log to
.Va stderr .
.It Fl d Ar server_root
Sets the server root path.
.Nm trackerd
will attempt to locate its required files under this directory, and
.Xr chroot 2
to it unless
.Fl u
is specified. The default value is set to the path
.Nm trackerd
was originally installed as, so it will most often not need to be set.
.It Fl f Ar config_file
Sets the path of the configuration file, relative to
.Va server_root .
The default is
.Pa etc/trackerd.conf .
.It Fl h
Displays a brief help message and exits.
.It Fl i Ar log_lines
When logging to a file using
.Fl L ,
limit the number of lines the log may occupy to
.Ar log_lines .
.It Fl L Ar log_file
Sets the path of the file that
.Nm trackerd
will log to. If it is not set,
.Nm trackerd
will instead log via
.Xr syslog 3 .
.It Fl l
Increases the log level. Without it, logging is limited to connects and disconnects. Used once, server registrations are also logged. Used three times, logs full debug information.
.It Fl s Ar syslog_facility
Sets the
.Xr syslog 3
facility to use for logging. See
.Xr syslog.conf 5
for information on possible values. The default value is
.Va daemon .
.It Fl t
Runs a configuration syntax test and exits.
.It Fl u
By default
.Nm trackerd will
.Xr chroot 2
to the
.Va server_root
path. This flag disables this behaviour. As a result of the default secure behaviour,
.Nm trackerd
cannot access any files outside
.Va server_root .
.It Fl v
Displays version information and exits.
.El
.Sh CONFIGURATION FILE
.Nm trackerd
reads configuration data from
.Va config_file .
The file format and configuration options are described in
.Xr trackerd.conf 5 .
.Sh FILES
The locations of these files can be configured in
.Va config_file ,
this list describes the default locations. All files are contained within the
.Va server_root
path.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Pa banlist
A newline separated list of banned IPs. Subnet notation (192.168.0.0/16 or 192.168.0.0/255.255.0.0) and wildcards (192.168.*.*) are recognized.
.It Pa categories
A file containing a newline separated list of tracker categories. Categories work like file system paths, and can be configured in a directory-like structure:
.Pp
.Dl category
.Dl category/subcategory 1
.Dl category/subcategory 2
.It Pa etc/certificate.pem
The OpenSSL certificate as described in
.Xr req 1 .
.It Pa servers
A file containing a list of all currently registered servers. Its format is private. Do not write to this file, the tracker will maintain it. If it exists at startup, the tracker will enter all the servers in it in its initial server list.
.It Pa etc/trackerd.conf
Configuration data for
.Nm trackerd .
The file format and configuration options are described in
.Xr trackerd.conf 5 .
.It Pa trackerd.status
The status for the daemon. It is used by
.Xr trackerdctl 8
and others to display some statistics. The file is a series of space separated numbers with the following meanings:
.Pp
.Dl time of startup
.Dl number of online server
.Dl total number of clients
.Dl number of online users
.Dl number of online files
.Dl size of online files
.Pp
.El
.Sh AUTHORS
.Nm trackerd
and the Wired Tracker protocol were developed by Axel Andersson, Zanka Software.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr trackerdctl 1 ,
.Xr trackerd.conf 5
