.\" trackerdctl.1
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2004-2006 Axel Andersson
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, and the entire permission notice in its entirety,
.\"    including the disclaimer of warranties.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES,
.\" INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" MARCUS D. WATTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING,
.\" BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS
.\" OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
.\" ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR
.\" TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE
.\" USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd Mar 23, 2006
.Dt TRACKERDCTL 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm trackerdctl
.Nd
.Xr trackerd 8
server control interface
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm trackerdctl
.Ar start | stop | restart | reload | config | configtest | status | help
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm trackerdctl
is a frontend to
.Xr trackerd 8 .
It is designed to control the starting and stopping of the tracker in an easier manner.
.Pp
The commands are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width
.It Va start
Starts the
.Xr trackerd 8
daemon.
.It Va stop
Stops the
.Xr trackerd 8
daemon.
.It Va restart
Restarts the
.Xr trackerd 8
daemon.
.It Va reload
Tells the
.Xr trackerd 8
daemon to reload its configuration by sending it the signal HUP.
.It Va config
Prints the current active configuration.
.It Va configtest
Runs a configuration syntax test, to verify that the config file will be accepted.
.It Va certificate
Generates a new OpenSSL certificate using
.Xr req 1 .
.It Va status
Prints a status summary.
.It Va help
Prints a quick command guide.
.El
.Pp
Additional argument flags passed with the
.Va start
and
.Va restart
commands are passed directly to
.Xr trackerd 8 ,
in addition to the default flags. The default flags can be set by opening wiredctl in any text editor and editing the variable
.Va TRACKERDFLAGS .
.Sh AUTHORS
.Nm trackerd
and the Wired protocol were developed by Axel Andersson, Zanka Software.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr trackerd 8 ,
.Xr trackerd.conf 5
