.\" wired.conf.5
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Axel Andersson
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, and the entire permission notice in its entirety,
.\"    including the disclaimer of warranties.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES,
.\" INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" MARCUS D. WATTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING,
.\" BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS
.\" OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
.\" ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR
.\" TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE
.\" USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd May 6, 2004
.Dt WIRED.CONF 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm wired.conf
.Nd
.Xr wired 8
configuration file
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm wired.conf
is the
.Xr wired 8
configuration file. It consists of keywords and arguments in a `key=value' format, separated by newlines. Lines starting with `#' are ignored.
.Pp
Paths are interpreted as absolute if they begin with a `/', otherwise they are relative to the server root. Boolean values should be either `yes' or `no'.
.Pp
The possible keywords and their meanings are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Va address
Specific address to bind to.
.It Va ban time
Number of seconds a temporary ban lasts.
.It Va bandwidth
Available bandwidth in bytes/sec to send to the tracker.
.It Va banlist
Path to the banlist file. Its format is described in
.Xr wired 8 .
.It Va category
The tracker category to register as.
.It Va certificate
Path to the OpenSSL certificate PEM file. See
.Xr req 1
for more information. If no certificate is specified, only anonymous ciphers will be used.
.It Va client downloads
Maximum number of downloads per client.
.It Va client uploads
Maximum number of uploads per client.
.It Va control cipher
The OpenSSL cipher list to use for the control connection. See
.Xr ciphers 1
for more information on its format.
.It Va description
A short description of the server.
.It Va files
Path to the files directory.
.It Va group
Name of the group that
.Xr wired 8
should operate as.
.It Va groups
Path to the groups file. Its format is described in
.Xr wired 8 .
.It Va hotline
Whether to enable the Hotline server subsystem.
.It Va hotline port
Port to use for the Hotline server subsystem.
.It Va idle time
Number of seconds after which to mark inactive clients as idle.
.It Va ignore dot
Whether to ignore files beginning with `.' in file listings.
.It Va ignore expression
A regular expression per
.Xr re_format 7
of patterns to ignore in file listings.
.It Va ignore invisible
Whether to ignore Mac OS invisibles in file listings.
.It Va name
Name of the server.
.It Va news
Path to the news file.
.It Va pid
Path to the file in which to place the process id of the running
.Xr wired 8
daemon.
.It Va port
Port number to bind to.
.It Va register
Whether to register with the tracker.
.It Va status
Path to the file in which to place the current status. Its file format is described in
.Xr wired 8 .
.It Va total downloads
Maximum number of downloads across all clients.
.It Va total download speed
Maximum speed of downloads in bytes/sec.
.It Va total uploads
Maximum number of uploads across all clients.
.It Va total upload speed
Maximum speed of upload in bytes/sec.
.It Va transfer cipher
The OpenSSL cipher list to use for the control connection. See
.Xr ciphers 1
for more information on its format.
.It Va url
The server's URL to send to the tracker.
.It Va user
Name of the user that
.Xr wired 8
should operate as.
.It Va users
Path to the users file. Its format is described in
.Xr wired 8 .
.It Va zeroconf
Whether to enable Zeroconf service publication to allow clients to automically find the server.
.El
.Sh AUTHORS
.Nm wired
and the Wired protocol were developed by Axel Andersson.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr wired 8 ,
.Xr wiredctl 1 ,
.Xr hl2wired 1
